Managed Identity documentation (#91)
MicrosoftDocs/microsoft-authentication-library-for-python: msal-python-conceptual/advanced/managed-identity.md

---
title: Using Managed Identity
description: Learn how to use Managed Identity with Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL) for Python.
author: localden

ms.service: msal
ms.subservice: msal-python
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.date: 06/25/2024
ms.author: ddelimarsky
ms.reviewer: rayluo
---

# Using Managed Identity

[Managed identity](/entra/identity/managed-identities-azure-resources/overview) enables developers to remove the need to store, rotate, and otherwise handle credentials for their applications running in the Microsoft Azure cloud. Microsoft Authentication Library (MSAL) for Python supports using authentication with managed identity on supported Azure workloads.

>[!NOTE]
>Managed Identity in MSAL Python is supported since version [1.29.0](https://pypi.org/project/msal/1.29.0/) of the [`msal` package](https://pypi.org/project/msal/).

MSAL Python supports acquiring tokens through the managed identity service when used with applications running inside Azure infrastructure, such as:

> - [Azure App Service](https://azure.microsoft.com/products/app-service/) (API version `2019-08-01` and above)

Reviewer: My understanding is that those kind of date-versioning scheme does not imply compatibility characteristics. As a result, we as its downstream consumer currently hardcodes to use that specific API version. We can't declare that the current MI implementation will work with MI's future versions of API.
```suggestion
- [Azure App Service](https://azure.microsoft.com/products/app-service/) (API version `2019-08-01`)
```

- [Azure VMs](https://azure.microsoft.com/free/virtual-machines/)
- [Azure Arc](/azure/azure-arc/overview)
- [Azure Cloud Shell](/azure/cloud-shell/overview)

> - [Azure Service Fabric](/azure/service-fabric/service-fabric-overview)

Reviewer 2: Python also supports Azure ML https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/machine-learning/how-to-identity-based-service-authentication?view=azureml-api-2&tabs=cli

import requests

managed_identity = msal.SystemAssignedManagedIdentity()

global_app = msal.ManagedIdentityClient(managed_identity, http_client=requests.Session())

result = global_app.acquire_token_for_client(resource='https://vault.azure.net')

if "access_token" in result:
    print("Token obtained!")
```

>[!IMPORTANT]
>You need to enable a system-assigned identity for the resource where the Python code runs; otherwise, no token will be returned.

### User-assigned managed identities

User-assigned managed identities can be used by instantiating <xref:msal.managed_identity.UserAssignedManagedIdentity> and passing to <xref:msal.managed_identity.ManagedIdentityClient>. You will need to specify the **one of the following**:

- Client ID (`client_id`)
- Resource ID (`resource_id`)
- Object ID (`object_id`)

>[!NOTE]
>You need to include a `http_client` reference, which can be set to `requests.Session()`. This enables MSAL to maintain a pool of connections to the IMDS endpoint.

You can specify the target resource scope when calling [`acquire_token_for_client`](xref:msal.managed_identity.ManagedIdentityClient.acquire_token_for_client).

```python
import msal
import requests

> managed_identity = msal.UserAssignedManagedIdentity(client_id='YOUR_CLIENT_ID')

Reviewer: I love the existing code snippet here (and above) for their simplicity.

We can probably still add a new Note section below to tell audience an advanced usage pattern. [MSAL Python's built-in Managed Identity (MI) sample was written this way](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-python/blob/1.29.0/sample/managed_identity_sample.py#L38-L42), so that same sample can work for both system-assigned managed identity and user-assigned managed identity, [based on a setting from ENV VAR](https://github.com/AzureAD/microsoft-authentication-library-for-python/blob/1.29.0/sample/.env.sample.managed_identity#L7-L10). `#WriteOnceRunAnywhere`

global_app = msal.ManagedIdentityClient(managed_identity, http_client=requests.Session())

result = global_app.acquire_token_for_client(resource='https://vault.azure.net')

if "access_token" in result:
    print("Token obtained!")
```

>[!IMPORTANT]
>You need to attach a user-assigned identity for the resource where the Python code runs; otherwise, no token will be returned. If an incorrect identifier is used for the user-assigned managed identity, no token will be returned as well.

## Caching

> By default, MSAL Python supports in-memory caching. MSAL does not support cache extensibility for managed identity because of security concerns when using distributed cache. Since a token acquired for managed identity belongs to an Azure resource, using a distributed cache might expose it to the other Azure resources sharing the cache.

Reviewer: No, in MSAL Python there is legit need to extend the token cache for persistence.

```suggestion
By default, MSAL Python supports in-memory caching. MSAL Python also support cache extensibility for managed identity, so that you may persist the token cache on disk. This can be useful if you are writing a command-line script in Python. We do not recommend sharing managed identity token cache among multiple machines.
```

Also, I believe, sharing token cache across multiple VMs using same UAMI would technically be OK. It is just that there will be no economic gain to do so. Fetching a token from a remote (distributed) token cache would require a network call, which is not faster than fetching a new MI token from the current environment and then cache it locally.
